Now let's take a closer look at the Kinesis Producer Library
and how to use it to send data into Kinesis.
So what is the Kinesis Producer Library?
It's a library for Java applications that is used to
help send data to Amazon Kinesis.
Specifically,
it's commonly used to collect and aggregate record data in order to
optimize the way you send it to Kinesis more efficiently.
This library is also especially useful when dealing with high‑rate producers,
as it can help optimize the sending of data over to
Kinesis, and how we package that together.
So let's look at an example of this.
To start,
let's imagine we have a very similar scenario to the
Kinesis agent example I explained earlier.
Let's imagine we have a virtual machine somewhere in AWS,
and inside of the virtual machine we have a Java application.
Now this Java application will use the Producer Library to help collect and
aggregate records and then send them over to the Kinesis stream.
In a normal scenario, each record might be sent individually,
however,
the Producer Library can take disparate records and then batch them
up together before sending them over to Kinesis.
This allows us to optimize the ingestion of data by the Kinesis stream.
So after this data is batched together,
it can be sent over to the Kinesis data stream as a single aggregate record.
And when it's sent over,
then any consumer of the Kinesis data stream could then
read that particular aggregated record using something
like the Kinesis Client Library, for example,
and then process that stream data and retrieve the independent parts of
that aggregate record and process them individually.
There are two kinds of batching that the Kinesis Producer Library
can accomplish, aggregation and collection.
These two techniques can be used to reduce the network
requirements and improve ingestion performance.
So let's take a look at what each of these does.
First, let's look at aggregation.
Aggregation is when the Kinesis Producer Library puts multiple
data records in the same Kinesis data record.
You might start with a data record inside of your application,
maybe some sold item or something else like that.
Now normally you might put this sold item inside of a Kinesis data
record and then send it over to the stream, however,
in this case,
maybe we take that record and aggregate it with other records inside the same
Kinesis data record, so in this Kinesis data record maybe we had three
different items that were sold in that particular example.
Now all of this is possible because the Kinesis data record
data blob where we store the information in Kinesis data
records can contain any arbitrary data,
so you can stuff multiple records in there as long as
they conform to the size limitations.
Now doing this helps avoid the 1 MB or 1000 records per second, per shard
limits by reducing the overall size of data passed through,
because then it requires less metadata, and by reducing the
overall number of records by including multiple would‑be records
inside of the same Kinesis data record.
In addition to aggregation,
you can also use collection with the Kinesis Producer Library in order
to reduce the overall number of network requests.
In order to do this,
you might have two Kinesis data records already created. Now rather
than sending them over to Kinesis one at a time,
you could collect several at once to send them over in the same HTTP request.
Now what this would mean is that you would make a single network request
sending this collection of records over to a Kinesis data stream.
This will reduce the network overhead and improve the performance of the
producer overall by reducing the number of HTTP requests you need to make
for the same number of records. You can also use both collection and
aggregation together simultaneously.
Let's imagine we have a similar Amazon EC2 instance with a Java app inside
of it for this purpose. We can start with the aggregation of these data
records into one single Kinesis data record.
Now, we can also collect multiple of these aggregated Kinesis data
records into a single request that we want to send over, so this
collection of multiple Kinesis data records, each containing other pieces
of information, and then the Producer Library will send it over a
aggregate record of this collection of multiple Kinesis data records over
to the Kinesis data stream.
So in addition to what we've seen so far,
why would we want to use the Producer Library? To start, it will
automatically handle error and retry logic behind the scenes for you.
You'll also get lots of built‑in functionality to help you batch
data together in ways that will optimize your network requests and
avoid Kinesis data streams limitations.
The Producer Library also automatically sends data into Amazon CloudWatch,
which is a service that can help you monitor and review
what's happening in your application.
Finally,
the Producer Library works effectively with the Kinesis Client
Libraries to help you build out consumers that can leverage some of these benefits effectively.